What is MLFlow?
MLflow is an open-source platform for managing the complete machine learning lifecycle, from experimentation and model training to deployment and monitoring.
It is mainly used for experiment tracking, versioning the model, model packaging and model deployment.

Why do we need MLflow? why cant we store the experiment tracking data in excel?
Most of the data scientists use excel or other notebooks to store the data related to experiment.

Drawbacks of storing the data in excel are:-
1. Prone to human errors, data scientists might forget to record the data in excel.
2. no centralized approach, different excel for different models.
3. No standard practice, each excel might be different from one another

MLFlow automates addition of data, it has a UI, easy to compare the 2 experiments and results will be shown without any issue.

1. MLflow is shared responsibility between MLOps and data scientists.
2. MLops engineers setup the centralized MLflow server either on aVM or an serverless functions like lambda, k8s
3. data scientists have to use MLflow model within their scripts and record the data, so the data is directly added to the MLflow servers setup by Mlops

MLFlow installation in local server or non production k8s:-

1. Create a VM or k8s cluster.
2. Install the MLflow using helm charts.
3. Expose the pod using port forward and access the MLflow via localhost and port

NOTE:- we should use external database for MLflow because we are storing data related tp exxperiments and as pods are ephimeral in nature it is suggested to create rds instance and store data there.
Also having mlflow in local server is of no use in real world scenario because it will be accessible only for the local server owner.

MLFlow installation for production k8s:-

1. Create a RDS instance with postgres sql.
2. Connect to the RDS instance using endpoint and password of rds instance from local machine using psql cli because we cannot directly connect to rds instance from AWS console
NOTE:- When u try to connect from local machine it will throw error because RDS istance is in VPC and only another ec2 instance from the same subnet will be able to connect
directly, If you want to connect from local machine enable public access to rds instance.
3. Once it has been connected create a mlflow database do not use default database
4. Create a user and provide all database privileges to that user
5. Create a k8s cluster and install mlflow on that cluster but with database details like below
helm install mlflow community-charts/mlflow \
  --namespace mlflow \
  --set backendStore.databaseMigration=true \
  --set backendStore.postgres.enabled=true \
  --set backendStore.postgres.host=your-postgres-host \
  --set backendStore.postgres.port=5432 \
  --set backendStore.postgres.database=mlflow \
  --set backendStore.postgres.user=mlflow_user \
  --set backendStore.postgres.password=your_secure_password
6. Setup a loda balancer and ingress for the eks cluster and access the mlflow
NOTE:- the pod contains a init container
